REPUBLIC ACT No. 11032 — Ease of Doing Business and Efficient Government Service Delivery Act of 2018
(amending R.A. 9485, the Anti-Red Tape Act of 2007). Source: lawphil.net/statutes/repacts/ra2018/ra_11032_2018.html
[Web-sourced verbatim of the operative sections — verify against the official copy before any filing.]

Sec. 9. Accessing Government Services.

(b) Action of Offices. —

(1) All applications or requests submitted shall be acted upon by the assigned officer or employee within the prescribed processing time stated in the Citizen's Charter which shall not be longer than three (3) working days in the case of simple transactions and seven (7) working days in the case of complex transactions from the date the request and/or complete application or request was received.

For applications or requests involving activities which pose danger to public health, public safety, public morals, public policy, and highly technical application, the prescribed processing time shall in no case be longer than twenty (20) working days or as determined by the government agency or instrumentality concerned, whichever is shorter.

Sec. 21. Violations and Persons Liable. — Any person who performs or cause the performance of the following acts shall be liable:

(a) Refusal to accept application or request with complete requirements being submitted by an applicant or requesting party without due cause;

(b) Imposition of additional requirements other than those listed in the Citizen's Charter;

(c) Imposition of additional costs not reflected in the Citizen's Charter;

(d) Failure to give the applicant or requesting party a written notice on the disapproval of an application or request;

(e) Failure to render government services within the prescribed processing time on any application or request without due cause;

(f) Failure to attend to applicants or requesting parties who are within the premises of the office or agency concerned prior to the end of official working hours and during lunch break;

(g) Failure or refusal to issue official receipts; and

(h) Fixing and/or collusion with fixers in consideration of economic and/or other gain or advantage.

Sec. 22. Penalties and Liabilities. — Any violations of the preceding actions will warrant the following penalties and liabilities.

(a) First Offense: Administrative liability with six (6) months suspension: Provided, however, That in the case of fixing and/or collusion with fixers under Section 21(h), the penalty and liability under Section 22(b) of this Act shall apply.

(b) Second Offense: Administrative liability and criminal liability of dismissal from the service, perpetual disqualification from holding public office and forfeiture of retirement benefits and imprisonment of one (1) year to six (6) years with a fine of not less than Five hundred thousand pesos (P500,000.00), but not more than Two million pesos (P2,000,000.00).

Criminal liability shall also be incurred through the commission of bribery, extortion, or when the violation was done deliberately and maliciously to solicit favor in cash or in kind.
